# Assignment 2 Write-up Arhat Pradhan

## An Overview of my Program
In this section of the write up I will discuss how I developed a simple automatic word-completion system using a DLB trie. 
Some of the main data structures used to build this system are the doubly linked-lists in the actual trie, 
StringBuilders that were used to keep track of the words for various methods and various nodes that were used to keep track of the position in the trie. Another important part of the Trie was the actual DLB class node which kept track of the data in the node, the parent, sibling, child nodes, the size, and also if the current node is a word. 

Taking a deeper look into the algorithim, we can first start with how we add words into the trie. 
In the add(String word) method, I first start off checking if we even have a string that came in as an arugment, 
if there wasn't a string that was empty or just null, I threw an IllegalArgumentException. 
After, I check if that the String that came in is already a word in the dictionary if it is already a word we do not add it.
For the actual adding method, I used a variation of the Lab 5 put method, but for this varition 
my method takes in a DLBNode, Stringbuilder, and an int that tracks the position in the StringBuilder
It is a recursive method that keeps calling until we are at the end of the StringBuilder.
Within this method we have various checks for if the Trie is empty, for adding new childs, and new siblings.
Another feature of the method is that this is where we keep updating the doubly linked list, in the method I 
implemented a node that keeps the track of the previous node, so that when the new node is added we can set that 
node as either the parent of the child or the previousSibling. For the other major part of the algorithim, I will 
explain how the autocomplete system gives a word prediction based on the user input along with how many predictions that match with
the current input. The first method used in this system is the getNumberOfPredictions(), this method returns the number of word predictions 
that are possible. For this method we use the DLBNode class' size which keeps the track of the number of times that 
specific character is in the trie. The meat and potatoes of the autocomplete comes from the retrievePrediction method, for the implemention of this 
method I created a new StringBuilder called prediction to act a temporary word from the dictionary. 
I first set whatever is in the currentPrefix to be set to the prediction, then I check if the prediction is already a word 
if it is just return that. If it is not a word then we check if the currentNode(which is pointed to the last string in the prediction) has first 
either a child node or a sibling node. If there is a child we loop until we have found a prediction that returns a word in the dictionary. If no child, 
we go to the nextsibling and do the same thing.

## Coding and Debugging Issues
The main issue that I faced with this whole program was correct set sibling and child nodes in the add. I had to 
critically think about all the cases that were possibe, and what to do for the child or sibling node in that certain case. 
Another issue that I came upon was in the retrievePrediction method, I had originally had not used a while loop to keep going 
until I had found a word. Instead I would just return the prediction by simply adding the next child and not returning a full word prediction.

| Method      | Runtime |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| add(String word)     | O(w) where w is the length of the currentPrefix/word, I was able to meet the runtime     |
| add()       | O(w) where w is the length of the currentPrefix/word, I was able to meet the runtime (add() uses add(String word)    |
| advance(char c)| O(1), I was able to meet the running time    |
| retreat      |   O(1),  I was able to meet the running time    |
| reset  |         O(1),  I was able to meet the running time       |
| isWord()      |  O(1),  I was able to meet the running time      |
| getNumberOfPredictions   | O(1),  I was able to meet the running time    |
| retrievePrediction |      O(n), where n is the length of the word, I was able to reach the runtime |
| printTrie(String start) | O(n) where n is the number of Nodes. I was able to meet the running time  | 
